# Rpl-detection-and-mitigation
Detection and Mitigation of RPL Attacks in IoT networks using IDS and Port blocking for mitigation
The RPL protocol (Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks) is a network protocol designed by IETF Winter, et al. March 2012 to optimize power consumption in the Internet of Things (IoT) devices. IoT devices have limited processing power, limited memory, and limited energy because they usually run on batteries. Designed to solve the energy problem in lossy networks, RPL aims to establish the shortest distance by creating a DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) of n number of IoT devices over each other. Thus, it optimizes the energy expended. However, due to the complex infrastructure of the RPL protocol and the low capacity of IoT devices, this protocol is vulnerable to attacks. Therefore, it is crucial to develop a fast, practical, uncomplicated, and reliable intrusion detection system at the network layer. An anomaly will occur in layer three network packets in the event of an attack on RPL-powered IoT devices. Processing these packets with machine learning algorithms will make it extremely easy to detect the attack. D'Hondt, Bahmad, Vanhee, & Sadre, 2015 succeeded in simulating Flooding, Version Number Increase, and Decreased Rank Attacks. With the normal and malicious IoT motes that they created; the raw data sets of each attack were obtained. After the raw data sets were made meaningful, these data sets were separated as 1/3 test and 2/3 training data set. Datasets were trained and tested by "Decision Tree," "Logistic Regression," "Random Forest," "Naive Bayes," "K Nearest Neighbor," and "Artificial Neural Networks" algorithms. As a result of the comparison, the Deep Learning algorithm detected Flooding Attacks with a 97.2% accuracy rate. The K Nearest Neighbor algorithm detected Version Number Increasing Attack with an 81% accuracy rate. The Deep Learning algorithm detected decreased rank attacks with a 58% accuracy rate.

